In terms of comparison,
let me go quickly over this chart.
So IndexedDB stores JavaScript objects and
binary data.
Cache storage stores HTTP responses.
So a PNG file, a JavaScript file,
an HTML file, a PDF file.
Web Storage, both session and local,
are storing strings, just strings.
It's also very limited.
So if you have ever used a web storage or
a local storage before, it's just strings.
So if you have an array, you have to
convert that array into a string like
comma separated or JSON stringify,
or something like that.
So it's limited, okay?
And the FileSystem Access is
working with files, okay?
Directly text files or binary files,
you have the full API to work
with a complete file system.
So IndexedDB is using a key of a keypath
on most situations within the option.
What's the keypath?
The name of a property in your object that
is the primary key, ID, for example, okay?
But it can be name,
a path within the JSON,
within the object that you
are saving within IndexedDB.
On cache storage,
the key is the request, okay?
So that involves the URL, okay,
but also it can be cookies,
the header, so
the whole request is the key.
So if you wanna get an object
from the cache storage,
you need to provide the requests.
And the storage will give you, okay, here
you have the response for that request.
Make sense?
That's the primary key.
On web storage, it's another string.
So the key is another string.
So key value, and both are strings.
And for the FileSystem Access,
well, we don't have a key,
we just have a path, maybe, okay,
for the file that we need to open.
On IndexedDB the data, okay,
or the JavaScript objects,
are grouped in object stores, and object
stores are grouped in databases, okay?
In the cache storage,
it's grouped in caches, that's the name.
In web storage, there are no group.
They are just at the root level, okay?
So you just store keys at the root level,
and the same with FileSystem Access.
IndexedDB, you can store
JavaScript objects and
binary data with the key path grouped in
object stores, up to the available quota.
And this is the first time we
are using that term officially.
So, of course, the next question will be,
what's the quota?
Stay with me, we will see that.
On cache storage, the same.
But the web storage, that's not the same.
So web storage is not using
your available quota.
On session storage,
it's typically 12 megabytes.
And local storage is
typically five megabytes.
So we don't know what quota is,
but let me spoil you this.
Typically today, you can safely
store up to a gigabyte per origin
without any issue on IndexedDB or
cache storage.
So five megabytes doesn't
seem good enough.
So that's another reason of why we
don't wanna use local storage anymore.
And it's even worse.
[LAUGH] I will explain why.
So those five megabytes
are not really five megabytes.
I will explain why in a minute.
Okay, so remember I mentioned that
if you like SQL databases for
whatever reason, there are new
ideas today that are coming back.
So do you see when I use SQL,
do you wanna create your own API,
your own database API?
So you feel you have the knowledge to
create a high performance database and
you wanna create your own
IndexedDB alternative?
Well, today, thanks to WebAssembly,
and IndexedDB, and or
FileSystem, it's possible.
So there are currently some libraries
that are taking SQLite, for
example, that is a C library.
So they took the C library,
they converted it into WebAssembly module,
and then you can run directly
SQLite on top of IndexedDB.
So then you can still use SQL if you want.
Yeah, you will have probably a performance
penalty because you need to load
that WebAssembly module,
it's not a native module in the browser.
But we are talking about the couple
of kilobytes, not l huge library.
And if you really need SQL for whatever
reason, well, maybe you already have
a system that works with SQLite, and
you already have a really huge structure,
and you wanna reuse all the code,
all the queries, and
everything that you have done on your
web app, well, you can do that now.
With WebAssembly, there is a high
performance way to run code, client side.